---
title: 基本概念
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-06-30T10:45:11.717Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-06-30T10:45:11.717Z
---

# Overview
## 基本要素
- Underlying Assets
	- The Stock
- Call V.S. Put
	- Call: Right to Buy
      - Buy Call(Bulish): Pay Premium, buy the 'Right to Buy', expecting to use 'lower' price to buy the expected Underlying assets beforen or on the date of expriration of the date.
      - Sell Call(Relative Berish): Receive Premium, Sell the 'Right to Buy', expecting the Buyer to NOT buy the underlying asset using their 'Right to Buy', which means the price will at least remaing below the strike price before or on the expiration of the date.
	- Put: Berish, Right to Sell
      - Buy Put(Berish):  Pay Premium, buy the 'Right to Sell', expecting to use 'Higher' price to Sell the expected Underlying assets beforen or on the date of expriration of the date.
      - Sell Put(Relative Bullish): Receive Premium, Sell the 'Right to Sell', expecting the Buyer to NOT sell the underlying asset using their 'Right to Sell', which means the price will at least remaing above the strike price before or on the expiration of the date.
- Current Price
	- the Current Price of the Underlying Assets
- Strike Price 
	- The execution price before or on the expiration of the date
- Expiration Date
	- The expiration date is the specific date when the option expires.
- xTM 
    - ATM (At The Money): When the current price is equal to the strike price.
    - ITM (In The Money): For calls, when the current price is above the strike price; for puts, when the current price is below the strike price.
    - OTM (Out Of The Money): For calls, when the current price is below the strike price; for puts, when the current price is above the strike price.
- Option Premium
	- The price for the option, it has different model to give it's value, but conceptually it caontains imtrinsic Value and Extrinsic Value
      - Intrinsic Value:(options that are OTM have zero intrinsic value)
      	- For a call option: Intrinsic Value=max(Current Price−Strike Price,0)
        - For a put option: Intrinsic Value=max(Strike Price - Current Price,0)
      - Extrinsic Value: Sum of 
      	- Time Decay Value: Alwasy decay until 0(This is also known as "Theta". As the expiration date approaches, the time value decreases, eventually becoming zero at expiration.)
        - Relationship between Current Price and Strike Price: ATM > ITM, ATM > OTM (due to the maximum uncertainty about whether the option will end up in the money or out of the money. This uncertainty decreases for ITM and OTM options.)
        - Implied Volatility: Higher IV, Higher Extrinsic Value(Implied volatility reflects the market's view on the likelihood of changes in the underlying asset's price. Higher implied volatility increases the extrinsic value of the option.)
